Here's something interesting.
We have a situation here in this edit where there's kind of any abrupt cut here.
I finish what I'm saying.
OK, but then I.
There's something in the video that I don't want to be there.
OK.
So one thing that you can do so that a court doesn't feel so abrupt is to match certain things in that
end of that cut into something similar in the next cut.
Now, I do kind of a quick, like head turn here, and that actually flows perfectly into action in
the next shot with a similar type of movement or motion.
So that person's eye is going to be looking right here at me as I'm turning.
And in that next shot, there's a foot coming in the frame that's also moving rather than turning.
But it creates more of a seamless cut.
Now, if I were to, for example, start this shot, maybe here where there's not that intro motion
into the clip, let's see what that looks like.
That is a waterfall.
You see, it's almost like there was something weird hanging out right there that makes the next shot,
kind of there's kind of a weird, you know, a weird subtlety.
But these things I want you to be able to really pick up on at this stage, to start thinking in a way
of how you're creating something that looks unique and feels great when someone watches it.
So we have this without using a similar motion in the next frame, the next clip to kind of mask a little
bit of an issue.
We had there was the waterfall and then we have that one that helps fix that problem.
Right.
So the shot that you have is always having a communication or a dialogue with the next shot.
Every frame is talking to the next frame, which is talking to the next frame.
And you create a whole string in your edit that creates this wonderful conversation that builds a whole
story.
So any time there's a little bit of a weird word in your frame that's kind of a mistake or something
that sticks out, it's going to throw off the viewer.
So these are cool little things that you can kind of pick up on to keep things smooth and feeling really
good in your edits.
It's stuff that you've felt, but you've never been able to put a word to why it is that you feel that
way.
So let's keep it moving here.
OK, so here's something I'm noticing here.
Both of these shots have a really great pan, a nice, smooth pan to show the scenery, but they're
going in different directions.
So there's two ways to get around that.
You can either reverse the speed of one of your clips or you can flip the orientation of the clip to
change its direction.
Let's do both of those and see which one we like the most.
So I'm going to right click my second clip here.
I'm going to go up to speed and duration.
And I'm going to click reverse speed.
This is going to make the beginning, the end and the end.
The beginning.
So let's see what that looks like.
OK, don't worry about the audio or the audio is going to play in reverse.
OK, so that works OK.
That's one option.
So I'm going to undo what we just did and now I'm going to do the second option, which is to flip the
orientation of that clip.
So I just added the horizontal flip filter here that I typed in from the effects tab, the effects panel.
And now let's play through.
OK, I'm liking that a lot more.
I'm thinking that fits better because the coloring here is kind of a tan and green and then the coloring
here is kind of a tan in green versus when we flipped.
Excuse me.
When we reversed the image.
Now it's kind of a dark black green, because that's what's at the end of the clip, which doesn't really
cut together in my eyes as cleanly as that does.
Cool, so that feels like a nice concluding shot.
We have our edit now at 49 seconds, which is perfect.
Our aim was to create something under a minute.
And now the next thing to do is to take a look at the entire edit from start to finish.